### Imperative Code vs Declarative Code  

- Imperative - Means expressing a command; commanding
In Imperative code we have to tell-** what to do and how to do it **.
Think of it as if we're giving JavaScript commands on exactly what steps it should take.

- Declarative Code  
With declarative code, we don't code up all of the steps to get us to the end result.
Instead, we declare what we want done, and JavaScript will take care of doing it.

- Remember how .map() and .filter() use to do declarative coding.
A bit rusty on JavaScript's .map() and .filter() Array methods? Or perhaps they're brand new to you.
In either case, we'll be diving into them in the React is "just JavaScript" section. Hold tight!

##### React is Declarative  
We'll get to writing React code very soon, but let's take another glimpse at it to show how it's declarative.

``` <button onClick={activateTeleporter}>Activate Teleporter</button> ```  
It might seem odd, but this is valid React code and should be pretty easy to understand. Notice that there's just an onClick attribute on the button...we aren't using .addEventListener() to set up event handling with all of the steps involved to set it up.
Instead, we're just declaring that we want the activateTeleporter function to run when the button is clicked.  

Declarative Code Recap
Imperative code instructs JavaScript on how it should perform each step. With declarative code, we tell JavaScript what we want to be done, and let JavaScript take care of performing the steps.

> React is declarative because we write the code that we want, and React is in charge of taking our declared code and performing all of the JavaScript/DOM steps to get us to our desired result.  

Further Research
Tyler's Imperative vs Declarative Programming blog post[https://tylermcginnis.com/imperative-vs-declarative-programming/]
Difference between declarative and imperative in React.js? from StackOverflow [https://stackoverflow.com/questions/33655534/difference-between-declarative-and-imperative-in-react-js]
